# Automating Weight Function Generation in Graph Pebbling
Mixed-Integer Linear Programming Approaches to Weight Function Generation in Graph Pebbling

This code base provides an inquiry into Mixed-Integer Linear Programming (MILP) approaches for Weight Function generation in Graph Pebbling. The work is a culimation of an Applied Mathematics Honors Thesis at Davidson College under the supervision of Dr. Carl Yerger and Dr. Jonad Pulaj, and supplements the formal written report. 

In addition to including the certificates that prove pebbling bounds on the Bruhat and Lemke square graph, this code base in constructed for further experiementation by future researchers. The novel result of the thesis was a verifiable proof that the pebbling number of the Lemke square is upper bounded by 96. However, the computational framework provided is capable of computing pebbling upper bounds on general graphs, including real-world networks, some of which are preloaded into the codebase. 

## File Structure 

Optimizer.py -> mixed-integer linear program implementation <br/>
PebblingGraph.py -> pebbling graph class with appropriate methods for functionality<br/>
TreeStrategy.py -> weight function classes <br/>
main.py -> compiler file used to run experiments and test function classes <br/>

## Experiementation
The repository is structured as follows: <br/>
### Graph Library 
The following graphs are preloaded as Pebbling Graph Objects into the code base: 
- Petersen 
- Lemke
- n-cube 
- 4th order Bruhat 
- Lemke square
We also include a number of netowrks compiled from [SNDlib](http://sndlib.zib.de/home.action): 
- Abilene 
- Atlanta
- Cost226 
- Europe 
- France 
- Geant 
- Germany 
- India 
- New York 
- US-CA 
- ta2
### Running the MILP 

## Pebbling Certificates 
Included in this repository are the weight function certificates and edges for the tree strategies that prove an upper bound of 96 on the Lemke square. The certificates for each vertex can be found in the directory results -> lemke square -> ls-bounds. 


<!-- ### visualizations 
saved netowrkx png vizualization files that display tree strategies generated from optimiation problems. (Lemke square visualizations are work in progress) 
### lps 
lp files for optimization problems run using Gurobi solver<br/>
### logs 
linear programming logs that track progress of optimization over time <br/>
### lemke_trees 
csv files that store edge sets for lemke square strategies generated by linear programs <br/>
### lemke_certificates 
weight function certificates for Lemke square generated by linear programs <br/> -->

